recording her so hi everyone welcome
this is the dynamic data and
capabilities working group BFS
dynamically and in capabilities working
group meeting which is now weekly so
today is January 15th Tuesday
welcome going to share my screen
hi olli hello hello I'm going to share
my screen if I okay cool
start recording could everyone please
put your names if you haven't already in
the list of attendees in the document
is there anyone volunteering to take
notes on on the second half of the
meeting for the second half of the
meeting yeah thank you
cool so my proposal here is also in
regards to the to the new planning for
for the new year for these meetings that
we cycle the leads on on the meeting so
we're going to ask for volunteers for
the next meeting so I would say like
cycle every two weeks or or month or
four weeks and you learn you lead so
that people can get start getting used
to doing these types of meetings if you
you sure not all right so please
everyone add items the agenda that you'd
like to discuss on a second half so for
people that that are new to these do
these formats we're going to start with
updates which are going to be
hopefully focus on just blockers and we
count the number of people that are
going to give their updates and divide
by the remaining time before we hit the
half hour and that's the time you have
to give your applets and so let's and
the second half will be for the rest of
the agenda discussions or demos that
people want to give or questions that
they have cool so place your items in
the agenda if you have them and while
you're doing that let's start with the
rounds of intros and updates intros I
don't think there's anyone new to this
group today so I guess we'll just stick
with the updates in the order of the
attendee list which I can start myself
so last week between the last meeting
and today not much was accomplished
reviewed a few pull requests on peer
bias but that's I was mostly occupied
internal PL stuff and right now I'm at
Porto which I guess the majority of this
meeting is is geographically in Porto
for the liquid to be happy festival p2p
hack week I guess whatever week so my
plan my plan for next week is to focus
on what I should have been focused on
this week which is speed up the tests
with pre-baked PIDs try worse attack or
RFS log to create a chat app and see how
that goes into what would be the efforts
to integrate that into to peer bias and
kick off the pure base rename renaming
and also to continue some work on
connection management in people
and that's it for me next up is Andres
ozone okay
hi everyone so from the last week week
until today
I just drafted some IDM concepts
regarding the UL can feel I focused my
only mostly on homepage and the profile
page I've made the revision with the
pillar Miguel for the some of these
because if I animations and specific to
do comment edit mode sorry
so the comments skill and the
placeholder which is the content bars on
the meshes messages of the app I've
prepared yesterday a prototype with a
with the example for the fab button with
the morph with the morph examples
between the the fab in the sidebar
itself the next steps for this weekend
to the next week will be the animations
revision regarding the colleague
commented in mode which weather off
started started today and then the farm
animations within the examples will use
cases for the entry and exit and I will
continue the aim concepts they need to
be able revised with the Moxie team and
it's big big Marco and ozone under
occlusion and then apply the book and
field the one that will be shows and
apply them to the other pages there's
something then I don't placed on the
agenda which is most most basically
focus on other web the dynamic data
which is as one of the PL videos which
were taking what was they can get by
Tiago here that was so so with the Zack
previously and yes seems good to go okay
thank you
alright next up is speed remedial
alright so what I have been doing and
what I will do next is related to
discussed if I animations and what I did
finish this this week
was the placeholder has some kind of
animations the skeleton of the comments
some some admission and also when you
are scrolling on the extension the
comments that are entering in view also
have some kind of scale and so I also
finished this this animation what I am
doing right now is I am trying to finish
a component a complex component that his
taking care of synchronized scroll focus
and and the animations themselves and I
also started the the comment edit mode
that has some kind of opacity but I need
to finish the complex component that I
told you about first and also I did
bring the the League of game to get the
privacy policy so that we can land I
specify on Firefox and so what I will do
next
the fab has some kind of animations
entering and exiting so I will do that
and also when you are editing or you are
writing reply and if you have text on
the text area and then you think you can
sell so it appears a model and that
model needs to have a fade out effect so
that's what I will do next and that's it
all right thank you
next stop Jim so building on when I
started last week I started to build
play around with my little I'm calling
them sketches he's like sort of little
simple test cases that you can drive
interactively at the console last week I
demoed turn the talk like when with two
Peters I just tried to modify that demo
accepts the state machine
a little bit so I could drive it all the
way this 26 piers and surprisingly
nothing works it was pretty cool and
then I didn't go beyond that because
there's only 26 letters and making the
Shelf of that I can change my codes so
and then I did another version of it
where I did like a control sample versus
a test sample so I had two different
versions of the pure based library and
great drove them in synchronization with
the keyboard and there wasn't really
much difference between the two versions
I'd chose so but that might be useful
yeah you know in the future when we do
have some like performance test cases
and things we'll be able to see the
performance like with their eyes so I
was excited to get that one working and
I was really really interested in swarms
yes I see Victor's on the car so I
actually did one I watch a bunch of
Vicki's videos and then I tried to use
swarms yes and it just did really really
simple one and yeah that one work so
there's cold try that one out this is
Warren Jeffs is neat it's sort of neat
with the graph QL mixed in there okay
then let's see yesterday because I was
working on all this stuff I didn't catch
a regression that happened last week
where a pure base was batching the
deltas together and was actually we have
these ideas sub collaborations and that
test case wasn't working so the content
was getting mixed together a sort of
funny output so I patched that up last
night so it should be working now and
then I sat in on two different working
groups the browser's working group and
the community working group and I'm just
sort of looking they're not really doing
a whole lot and so things I've blocked
on the Jenkins server touch this with
our not sure why he didn't respond to me
and then I think going forward we need
to talk a bit more about what we're
officially going to do for a Pinner for
pure pad in terms of like if you reboot
like this pinning to ephemeral disk
right now so we need to have a better
solution for that so we can reboot the
Pinter node and say not lose the data
and I've got a bunch of ideas for more
of these little sketches so that's it
for me
cool thank you Jim I've added a question
of last discussion at the agenda for
later for junior for sorry right at the
end pin or for pure pads so let's let's
briefly discuss what would be the next
steps for that later in this meeting if
you have time okay okay thank you next
up is and in hello yeah yeah yeah sorry
some minor issues so yeah I've I've been
it's trying to work on a few things
simultaneously um mostly just you know
chiming a little bit on some of the
other proposals that you guys are not
working on which are really great and
I'm trying to think a little bit more
about the peer based concepts and I
think every time I try and sort of
rewriting a little because trying to
figure out how to take into account more
than just what we already have built
kind of things were planning on and I'm
also been been poking around more about
and asking you a little bit up the Lib
p2p meeting yesterday um for some advice
on how to make of synchronizing
append-only DAGs work on public channels
right now I have it set up so if you
know who all your collaborators are in
advance then you can just
to them but to have something that works
a little more like how pub/sub works or
how peer-based works is is important so
trying to figure out that and also how
maybe to separate this out it looks like
some of the things that we're doing in
peer based are things that Lupita piece
should be or could be handling for us so
that's that's kind of what I'm I've been
thinking about and working on and I am
I'm out next week that's that's most of
it
cool thank you thank you then on the
concepts if when you're ready if you
want just just put it on an IRC format
and expect that to change in the future
you can you can make that word public if
you're comfortable with it it's yeah I
think what I'm gonna try and do tonight
and tonight tomorrow is just make sure
that everything I have right now is is
up on on github so that people can give
me comments while I'm while I'm out and
then I'll take a look at them when I
come back nice thank you
then next up is Sandra Cruz yes bring
okay so in terms of the tasks that I've
concluded so the the IP of these
supports to the ipfs log module was
finally merged which means that app FS
log now uses IP all the links in order
to link the heads and the next fields of
the data structures this was initially
an easy task but we over the time we
actually see that it was kind of
composed because one of the things
that's changed was the data structure
and the codec used to store the data and
they wanted to be backwards compatible
so what this means is that we had to do
some kind of tinkering in
other to support old data structures and
also new ones because the older the
older ones was were stored on DAC PB and
any ones were obviously start using
black C bar we'd IPL degrees and they
wanted to have our BTB
data by his work on previous data
structures and also new ones so this was
kind of complex but it was merged
proposal of community in terms of the
data structures so I've made a kind of
an egg there in order to do that but I
also made the proposal a more formal
proposal on how to handle breaking
changes on the data structures in the
future and also to the public API you
have the link there to my proposal
but essentially is like a migration by
two islands of some sorts we runtime
migration which means that it happens on
on with operations and not a full
migration of the of the of the data so
there's the proposal there we have some
some discussions on pure base as well
related to these topics because as far
as I know we have also that instructions
internal internal data structures of
clear bias like the membership CR DT and
so on and if you want to support
backward backwards have backwards
compatibility on those data structures
we also need to address that somehow and
even developers like like me that that
might specify and also developers that
made a pure pure path we also probably
want to have some kind of backwards
compatibility so this is the thing that
happens both internally on peer base and
also externally for developers that
build build upon peer bytes so I've made
a proposal there and perhaps you could
you could read it and perhaps have some
sort of discussion and later on on how
can we address that on on pure base as
well
also I've been I've been reviewing a few
pull requests on on a previous work
related to the things about Versa dog
versus FS for that many contributors or
if you consider making I've also had at
that time out support for reading
operations on on FS law because they
didn't have the time out so I added that
I'm not really satisfied on the solution
that is there because it's too complex
perhaps to explain but it will probably
change I will probably change the
request because there's a few things
that made me made me do like I did but I
want to change the way I'd made it also
I've been I've been working on proposing
going to reboot trial of trusts session
number eight which will happen next
month on by the end of February and and
in the beginning of March which is the
centralized identity workshop basically
like this is the 8th session and
basically all the dids pear candy ideas
and and many things related to identity
actually was proposed or draft there so
this is a very important workshop and me
and patrol alongside with two hands one
will go there in terms of what I'm doing
now I'm integrating on that aims to
break down dog and I'm I want to make an
apologize because I haven't had many
time to actually respond to all the
feedback that I have in the document but
hopefully next next few days I will have
that time because I I've been like
switching context between ffs log and
identity and other things so next time
and I think we should create issues for
each section on that entity breakdown
dog so that we can like migrate what we
have done in the document to eiv shoes
and start working and there from there
and I will also schedule some brainstorm
sessions on a few topics of the identity
based on topic because I think
those topics actually need to be
discussed with the team and evolve
involves some people in order to
conversion some on some topics and
finally because people some people of
practical art plugs are here on port so
I'll hopefully hang out with them
Holly's here diabetes here and Pedro is
as well and some other people of the
lipid eating and that's it for me thank
you enjoy
just a quick note about the rebooting mo
of trusts to occur in Barcelona by the
end of Eva's
but you know February beginning of March
and I'm we're at the stage of planning
that so we may rent rent a big apartment
for anyone else that is planning to come
so there will be if your internal to
protocol labs or or you have permission
to to go from someone just just being me
and and we will get probably could share
an apartment there if you're interested
in in coming if you're interested in in
identity and right that sort of stuff
cool thank you
so next up is Victor hello so I think
he's not the first time when we talking
about last time I was talking it was
like two months ago an update so I'm
working on replicated of recommendation
version 2.1 which is like cause LCD here
and at the same time it is a nor kodak
so one second technology so this been
replicated OTC all the relevant texts
this is a screen
yip-yip will huh so all the relevant
stuff is here examples and so on so
basically it is innovation which has
like a long port like ooh logical things
terms attached in different pieces of
data so it is able to always measured
using civilities and it also has
annotations but basically the miracle
tree is derived from the tree of
creations and typically and some crashes
are mentioned explicitly so eagerly
those caches must cover the entire data
set I implemented currently in C++ for
several reasons well my like key
motivation here is actually a typical
comment when presenting like distributed
way upon conferences like thousand
people who develop persons and as I say
like well it is a good idea but how can
we use it like tomorrow what can we do
useful this so basically I'm trying to
make little embedded database for mobile
devices which may also work using rep
assembly in the browser
so basically embedded the degrees in C
is a very hardcore topic so I'm using
the proxy B which is specifically like
Allegro database which is like a
database for building other databases so
also first con stuff is done by as I
smart well-paid people and I'm just
doing the CDP and hash apart so
currently is in very prototype basic
condition so it kind of
[Music]
response to very basic ladies like what
is a hash table of an operation or he
may for example map our own frames into
external presentation like CSV for
example actually see is the only matter
that works now but plan to make JSON and
in plain text my parent what's not so
and on the inside it looks like this so
basically it's so made of wrong frames
data
Plus metadata this strange
phenotypically metadata it's less
strange phenotypically data these are
the cursors so the storage is chain
based whatever it means so this mode is
what I'm working on
and currently I'm kind of making it
dimmable so I have the basic engine
working Mallis so I'm adding like data
formats and everything today like I did
a very preliminary version of the global
array we just like our main city by
virtually for a collaborative editing
and everything like that so this is not
modest
it is some github so feel free to check
it out
actually it is not released yet so then
we spin p50 if you'd like to check it
out I overthought adhere to the list
questions questions but I know if I know
if it's too soon to us but is it
possible to use run on top of of Delta C
oddities like you used basically over
the past several years or certain
conveyed convergence in the city world
there is nice but very big text named
danger laced with history well one guy
who currently works for Apple he
basically explains it very fine details
[Music]
convergent evolution of jellies and like
this brand of Serapis is with
disabilities and I mean initially it was
like obvious or state by solidity and
they started conversion so this wrong it
is kind of outpaced but at the same time
built enabled if you wish so it is like
very close to them disabilities because
it has the same data structure for such
as hundred state and operations so it is
not exclusively operational more
consumption so it is like one of those
commercial schemes so so more or less it
is very similar thing to them to enable
Serenity's but yeah my my apparent that
it could be possible to just feel like a
really great integration where you just
treat the use the
delta c rd t stuff that we have to just
do like a replicatable grow array and
just put the wrong entries into that
just to like it wouldn't be like what
you wanna actually do i think it is
possible talking about i mean if you
have all the data notes with timestamps
i think unless you already even yeah
captivating and the other is supposed to
I mean formally even obesity might be
expressed a state based on but it is
actually a formal notation so it has
like formal grammar and American so it
is not like I have one implementation
new have another there is actually a
formal grammar which looks awful like
all formal grammars one second
so and like he's forgotten so Medicaid
this is the formal grammar for the
text-based version of the protocol there
is also a binary version and for example
concede it means forum Jess it makes
sense to or convert it in tile it was a
binary version because these days it is
not really difficult to parse binary in
JavaScript and and mas will be updating
hopefully small ingest 2.1 I think we'll
be using the binary version of the
product on that and the text version is
much easier to eat and embark on a
mission so but well in jars country it
is a bit painful to parse it in terms of
performance and everything
in sepals Pasco and others parson is not
such an issue so this is more or less
state of the scenes Thank You Victor
I added there's a question from a Dean
before that Alaska - can you could add
the link to the to that article that you
were referring opposite on on the
comments but if people may want to refer
to your notes there and get the link
from there or even the link to to your
current implementation of Iran in C++
[Music]
yeah if you could do you have the if you
could add in them to the notes sorry the
notes in the crib pad notes that would
be very useful for people later later on
thank you I didn't you had a question
yeah I someone was just the the github
thing that you posted I yeah we can't
get access to I'm not sure if you knew
the other is I'm just trying to like to
understand a little more with the UM
the motivation behind behind some of the
things like the like why why try it why
put the effort into making the formal
grammar sort of operate like what makes
that easier for you than just saying I
want to use protobufs or whatever like
yeah so it is not about the formal model
mmm
grandma it's about the formal model
because it it is effectively embedded it
was a database so it needs to be really
very strict to make sure it works always
no matter what so there is a very strict
formal model what is allowed what is not
allowed how it works so any limitation
must work did mystically exactly display
and actually that formal model it is
very upset there is some internal for
Hamilton which is very simplistic like
everything is 16 bytes I will fill the
16 bytes everything is fixed we stand
for boy
smallest corresponds to in memory layout
and when it calculates caches it is
using that internal yeah but that we
don't know
Oh yard is basically painful to see
realized because it takes too much space
so there is text based civilizations
there is binary civilization protoman
civilization absolutely no problem Jason
Bay sterilization no problem basically
there is some click normal no internal
format each kind of the definition of
fiends and any serialization that can be
derived from sin turn off or bottom
parts back into internal format is a
good sterilization so binary Jason when
literature is also absolutely no problem
and well and in case of the text by it
based serialization well formal grandma
role is necessary to make sure it always
passes correctly deterministically
basically I using a poinsettia generator
to make the parser which is 5,000 lines
and which is most likely correct because
I'm using the regular which is like
heavily used in high load applications
by CloudFlare and others so I need that
for formally defined grammar to have
formally correct parser which I am
absolutely sure will work because it was
in the core of the database and it must
like always work without any exceptions
or any strange cases or anything so
legislation all right thanks and is
there any interest in using things like
political tea hashes as the pointers and
like what are you using as hashes now
I'm currently using shadow but well it
is not like a requirement so it may use
any hash function so basically what is
fixed here is the structure of the tree
because it is defined by the structure
was a causal tree and the hash function
is absolutely like any any function that
works yeah I just thought it might be
called to be able to if you wanted to
swap out your communication channel with
ipfs then you could just start
requesting the operations and if you
have the multi hash any kind of yes sure
I'm actually more reliant on your IDs
and I mostly use hashes for integrity
checking because hashes have no internal
structure and it is difficult to
parasite - well - Natasha's but you can
lead to around hoc you need a double you
need a table of also has a side like
distributed hash table tell about the
you need all of them in memory and if
you can see like IP addresses or
anything like that they have
was the structure which allows to like
aggregate them in batches and greatly
demise of the screens so I'm actually
using video ad for like routing or
different purposes and hash for
integrity checking and doing my best to
like use hashes implicitly without
actually storing them most of the time I
like it very derive exam on the fly so
it is a big an interesting topic and I
didn't solve like 100 person person but
like a small s approach cool thank you I
think we have to move on to the next
thing maybe maybe if you want to have
like a discussion point on on this
letter if you have time could add it to
the agenda and yeah Olli yeah you're
wrong hello gratefully I shouldn't
working on the IP FS whip you re I have
another thing particular relevant to the
dynamic they agreed to add but we've
been fixing bugs with uploading
directories and multiple directories
from dragon draw and I hope you and this
week I've had to think of the Lib p2p
ground and hedgerow with the dynamic
data stuff and hopefully Andres Souza
Petrov about the the UI concerns that
your team that's it so maybe more next
and next Jacob nice thank you and
welcome
so next up there is a bunch of questions
when will we discussed in new name of
pure base first one yeah right away
we should be discussing that and not
necessarily in public forum so because
of all these obvious reasons but we will
we will that really soon trademark yeah
really soon prioritize the next question
actually I should share my screen so
that you guys also yeah it was me that
added that one the song do you want to
scrub that yeah yeah it's related to the
Pinner which is the ability to pin any
cid which is currently blocking us of
having the pin i intuited on this
classified because the CR dt itself even
if that speciality itself would be pins
the comments themselves wouldn't be
loaded because they are not peanuts so
we need that kind of feature on the
Pinner so that we could type in DC ad
for me and the Pinner would think that
cid so yeah this is come easily coming
like a blocker for us so i would like to
have that privatized and and by
prioritize i mean we could we could like
one of one of moxy collaborators could
tackle the technology but we could we
should and we must converge into a
solution there's a couple of suggestions
on how to do that so perhaps you could
like I don't know schedule something so
that we could converge on the solution
and have someone tackle that or
implements that nature okay quick quick
comment on well am I gonna stop sharing
quick comment on that
yeah there's been some discussion around
around which strategy to use for pinning
ipfs so static contents on on pure base
whether we should use the app in your
cluster and use the pinning API or what
it should just make it simpler on the
user and just just
do a recursive see my automatic
automatic recursive pinning on honest
reality somehow automatically so there's
there's some discussion pending good
good points on bringing that up again
we should let's put that bet on on the
table again and discuss that this week
that were we're here likes put aside a
half an hour and and just discuss a lot
of the first iteration of that any
comments on that is this separate from
the existing Pinner or is this like it
seems like it's it's application
application specific and because the
current Pinner sort of assumes that
things are encrypted but they're
necessarily making things unencrypted so
the pin arc and yeah it so it has to be
apt level because the the Pinner doesn't
know the the contents of the strategy
not able to to decrypt if it's a private
collaboration it's so it's up oriented
but even the app could be peer bias
could be some of some help on on there
right so as it just try to if he finds
the Pinner it does try to pin the
charity
it could also somehow help pinning the
into but if there was a reference to
nappy FS idea to could try and pin
and pin that or even get that locally
and then and replicate that locally so
that there's there's there are some
finer points there that we should also
we don't want to well we want you don't
want to recreate that EFS infrastructure
on our side we want to use as much as
possible the existing ipfs
infrastructure for pinning so I guess
there is a developer experience angle to
that and and and also an infrastructure
angle to to that that's we that we
should discuss we should definitely
discuss this I think from the from the
consumers of pure bytes the developers
that used the pure base module it's kind
of kind of weird to not have this
feature
but I agree that the solution that we
will use we could like take a few parts
different parts and we must discuss
discuss the advantages and shortcomings
of each of each of one and just choose
one for now and the moment we let's
let's put some sometimes for for this
week to discuss that and also also I
think there was an issue if there's no
no issue that I out asked with you to
open one there's an issue right okay
would you just add add URL for the issue
to the notes yeah I traded to the
questions and I think ollie is also
making some notes there there's one
question about the the Pinner thing also
from some googling around I saw that
there's a project on github of trying to
create like a sort of standard interface
for a created for doing like ipfs
pinning which you may want to take a
look at right I think perhaps the way to
do this is we have our you know peer
based spinner which then is allowed to
call out to an IP FS Pinner
and that way we don't have to replicate
anyone elses work but we also have an
interface that we can you know switch
around and then we can have different
you know they can be memory based they
can be persistent we can whatever we
feel like Ally we're at least not
duplicating work we that was also I
guess there was no someone else I
proposed that and I think it's a good
approach where where it's just just a
proxy for well the pure base spinner is
a proxy and that in that part of the of
the persistence is just a proxy to to an
actual Pinner which could be the public
IP FS cluster
yeah I think that's that's a good a good
way to do it but let's let's discuss
this I I could put something on the
calendar for us to discuss this this
doing this because you're interested
also and then what this topic anymore I
didn't know all right let's move on so
next one is should measure the benefit
and how hard it would be to use any kind
of charity ah pasted by Delta charity
run basically the benefit and how hard
it would be to use this was my question
as well in terms of the pure lines so in
terms of fees but now we just supports
Delta by these charities and if we
really see the value of using the
operational base charity for some kind
of situations or even run Bay is I don't
know if that makes sense but let's say
that new kind of Sharon he comes over in
the future should we be locked down to
the other charities or should we make
like a stress side or something or
adapter so that we could integrate
several types of CRT into our ear base
and that's a good question my intuition
is that is that we shouldn't just just
confine ourselves to daughter and by
charity because it may not fit so so I
guess the basic primitive would be a
causal tree cause of a console tree
would be the basic primitive for up
biased causes realities and that would
fit and and easily you could adapt any
use any existing library for a based
charity that is more or less pure I
thinking about the Jason charity one
most monomers exactly we can map out
emerge easily on top of such a structure
and other outposts causal oddities on
top of that so I think that's why I want
to start trying I profess what converse
the deck and see how well it fits with
with pure base because that could be a
good foundation for for for that right
right now there's no there's no reason I
mean the user is does right now the the
pure base user does not perceive that
it's a delta by dt or it's not based
charity is real transparent so there's
no really no nothing locking us into
delta based charities sorry briefly on
enter on if same commit their own
strategy it must be and don't just show
you yes because yes because were right
now we're extending the one only the
extent it takes they're extending the
the austerities singleton library
library singleton yeah no you're right
but that's easily that could be easily
configurable III believe we're still in
time to to to help on that you know when
I came I'm asking this is this just
because if we want to like adapt or
adopt or even use other as TLC oddities
that you mentioned not emergent and so
on I would see like several modules
several adapter modules like say pure
base autumn urge or something like that
that will be like the adapter between
the outer merge and our our replication
strategy and an adapter for the pure
base and we will have like a weak
ecosystem of adapters for all these
kinds of civt is on tie possibilities
victor we see it in a way that there is
directed acyclic graph of changes right
and these are like static data pieces
which
replicated over the network and that is
like the lower interface and the upper
interface is some sort of user
consumable data structure subjects Jason
- and everything in between
well is some sort of certainty in our
case so these are like - very clear in
their faces
exactly I didn't you wanted yeah I think
the different types I don't know I've
been noticing so I was thinking about
sort of the deltas in the office then
state based CRT T's and how we can sort
of make use of all of them if we need to
I think they start to affect the
replication strategy as well
and I was trying to think how to use
sort of the lid p2p style like we'll
have a you know we have a a route we
have sort of message routing we have
like the mesh of peers and how we can
use those sorts of structures to break
things into pieces but I think that it's
possible that some of our some of the
things will end up getting a little
coupled where the CR DT and the
replication that gets chosen to use with
it
might be a little more couple than we'd
want right like I think the the textile
folks have basically been using Message
Queuing and a pretty strict linear you
know uptick you know off-base CR DT to
do their to do what they're doing and
that's that only works because they sort
of have these always online Message
Queuing servers yeah I may have
misunderstood but that was what I
understood from our phone call you know
whatever a month ago so I don't know if
it's gonna be quite as simple as like
create this you know create a causal
tree put things on top of it I think we
can have user I think we can have
something that's nice-looking to the
users they don't have to care about the
underneath but the developers are not
gonna it's gonna be harder
you're absolutely right the the
replication strategy there it has to be
different because because there's a lot
of underlying assumptions that mean that
that Delta Charities implements that
tapas charities just just just don't
need well they have the different early
from representations so when they have
different replication strategy your your
your stats right I guess that
replication strategy has to match
somehow somehow match the reality type I
would say because if it's a causal
merkel bag you could do use IPL the if s
upheld the graph swap or graph sync or
whatever replicate the job set well the
battery but there could be other
strategies for faster if you want like
real time perhaps this is real time and
a lot of fine grained operations like if
you're doing a text editor perhaps this
isn't a lot the best strategy and so you
could plug different strategies that we
could define or our plugin different
strategies for for application which is
something that I believe could be could
could be a solution to to to this and
they could live well we all have to
invent every when some type of grammar
and that will allow for both of this to
coexist but or grmio some some some
language that will offer this to
co-exist you could in theory use use
Delta state based replication and and
then Merkel diagram location on top
because we're already doing doing that
for for instance the misclassify we have
like a delta c oddity and then we have
if you want we have history like a
causal history replicated as it's like a
side chain and so there's nothing
preventing this from yeah I just
mentioned there and I think it's worth
discussing these are resuming this
discussion when we
make and I think he's adding that he's
doing that the document that breaks down
periods on on interfaces and so on
perhaps this is a point I want on the
collaboration parts or our section to
discuss
Travie further discussion brainstorm
session if it's worth or not and if it
does then how can we approach this right
yeah some of you the the developer
experience the the the API I think it
should be really intuitive for for a
beginner so that people just just maybe
if they don't know shiera t they don't
care about what I saw I saw thought
about this want to create a just like
structure or an array or assets or
something they should be really
straightforward and they shouldn't have
to think about that but there are ways
of composing these these things that
then they have to start thinking about
the semantics of different types and so
they have to dig a bit deeper because
really when people are used to dealing
with databases they're not used to
dealing with conflicts and merge
conflicts they just implement typically
implement less writer wins and then
don't care about concurrency at all and
so they have to start we force them to
start having to think about this because
of the offline all the offline scenarios
that can occur or seem see my offline
like connectivity different connectivity
scenarios Jim you have something say
yeah yeah I've been thinking about this
too because I was playing around with I
worked on the Auto merge project with
that previously and then you know
obviously the Delta C rdt stuff and then
playing around with sworn GS and they
they all three of those have like
radically different sort of programming
interfaces you know swarm GS is exposing
a graph QL type interface which is
really nice for saying react yes
programmers you know the Delta C our
duties is sort of nice because you can
pick and choose specifically which CRT
T's and there's a whole menu of
different Sierra T's bt's you can use
and the auto merge
sort of it's because this just seems
like JSON so like a JavaScript
programmer here knows JSON can sort of
sort of croc it fairly easily so I don't
see like there's a lot of benefit in
having like a unified programming
interface however overall though they
don't know what the clear winner would
be at this point I think it sort of I
don't but I do see that like some of the
work we've done with like connection
management and we have bolts like the
p2p and managing swarms in the browser
nobody else has done that in the world I
mean it's sort of like you know what we
have is unique so that seems like a
valuable part to factor out some of but
some of that should probably move into
lit p2p like a Dean says and we still
have to like iterate a lot on these
interfaces and figure out what's the
right thing they're absolutely right
yeah I don't I don't believe that
they're unified well that's it's just my
view but I don't know that the unified
interface is something to strive for
I I don't I don't really care I'll just
care about the ease of use for first
first comer and and yeah you're right
there's the in terms of legally PGP this
all being something that perhaps lit b2b
should be solving there's a gossip sub
well in the in that net chapter there is
gossip sub implementation that happened
long ago and should will probably happen
on Jas someone should jump in and at
least and and do that on the Jas side
because it would solve some of the
issues that that word you'll have to
deal with in in in peer base in terms of
the swarm of the peers and because if a
topology and and and that yeah that that
could be factored out into something
else
absolutely yeah like I think like
because we're ipfs and we have serve a
unique advantage in that we can drop
things into the ipfs daemon that will be
on thousands and thousands of things and
the problem with running things in the
browser is browsers can't truly talk
peer to peer they have to go if your
gateways so we can we're probably the
only people in the world that has this
ability to do like a massive
sort of the public infrastructure that
people can use in browsers or is this
stuff
exactly also there there is some finer
details on on there's some different
types of strategies and different
replication strategies have different
characteristic form as characteristics
have different oh well some different
guarantees replication sorry persistence
guarantees and and so at a certain point
you have to know some of these stuff to
decide so that there's there's there's
some IP API design work that has to
happen I believe for for this to be as
perfect users and now also be powerful
enough for for advanced users that know
what what they're doing any more
thoughts on on this subject I think
we're some minutes had above time I
would say where are we I think there's
one last question there's a growth
there's a graph sink discussion tomorrow
are there any new scales really want
supported who who put that in so I can
explain I did oh yeah
could you yeah yeah so of all of the
types of synchronizing of graphs and
poor names for them there for at least a
few of them there's a meeting tomorrow
to figure out sort of get an
implementation underway so that instead
of IP instead of just using bits law and
asking for the hashes that you need if
you ask for and I peeled the objects
right the root you should be getting the
leaves with it too um and and also the
ability to have other sorts of you know
queries with that I'm sure the people
who are who are running that meeting
have all sorts of things in mind
I'm gonna be listening in just to see if
there's anything that happens to
resonate with the other type of graph
synchronization that I'm working on but
I wanted to know if there were any use
cases that we had in mind that were like
let's just make sure they support these
as soon as possible when in terms of you
know I peeled your application or or
what not if not and then that's fine too
no that's that's very interesting
Jim this started getting ahead of where
I'm at but I was doing that experiment
where I was trying to represent at in IP
LD and you know I wasn't worried about
replication yet because you know bit
swap but obviously like that has its
replication algorithm which is just you
know pulling on bits of binary tree and
syncing it so obviously but I would
think that graphs link with just if the
graph sink is doing his job at all it
would cover like a simple binary tree
syncing situation so it doesn't
currently got its bit swap is is it's
just it's not it's not for herself so I
would grab sake you should be able to
say like give me this subset of a binary
tree and under food the full subset I
think our use case or simple to use case
is get you get the root and then then
get get the whole the whole tree because
I believe getting a part of the tree is
not really useful to to a CRT I may be
wrong but I'm not seeing an use case for
us to be to get the partial replication
or be at least be notified or over an
intermediary state of the replication
yeah and their own visit did that hyper
core thing specifically which is
actually based on some work Victor did
like way back when oh all right yeah so
yeah it's just it's just the it's it's
model it's just it's like it's it's
really not much different than I think
what we're talking about with ipfs login
that where it's like you know it's a
tree and you want to just get sparse to
get a sparse set of records you know
maybe a million records
the only one you know secured 500 you
know you don't want to sink the entire
there very nicely my my requirement
would be sink an entire bag of of
operations which could be potentially be
a huge tree or very granular fine-grain
operations and sink that I could do the
single across as as quick as possible
some nodes I may have locally some nose
I may not have so there is like there
there may be some concurrent root root
hashes and I want to get all of the
concurrent root hashes the entire
operation set of those concurrent with
ashes and I might have part of that tree
locally and I want that on my site as
quick as possible
yeah that would be the the use case I
would I would before on on that meeting
and then I'm flooding a particular set
of I you know I have a high of a hundred
peers I want to flood that particular
set of peers with the request for some
route and I want it I want all of them
to send me the data as soon as possible
without like flooding the network more
than they have to that yeah I don't know
about about the the how or what the
strategy the flooding strategy should be
if there is some some different topology
on on here or or did or if the DHT is
involved or or not but I'm not too sure
about implementation details and and
what what they're discussing but the
requirement would be something like yeah
get get it get over here as soon as
possible without without much much
duplication without without much so I
don't want those 100 peers to all of
them be sending at the same time than
the same data also I would like to say
that and he specify or one of the goals
of the specify was to have the data of
the comments in the discussions open to
them so at the moment they aren't they
are the aren't really start on ipfs in
terms of having like a tree a graph
but it was one of our goals in terms of
like get this Eid and you'll have like
the full discussion link through the to
the tree of comments because threads are
linked to that the parents and so on so
if if you wanna Dean we could make good
schedules some time in order to make an
exercise if if I could if I could take
graphic digressing can make a proof of
concept of having specified on top of
this this graph sync module in order to
have this data structure open to the
public just by having a single cid and
of course replication replicating and
synchronizing over all the peers that
are under discussion so I think I think
that this also deserve deserves a more
discussion of were ahead of time but one
thing I I would like to add to that
and we can discuss this later is is the
having a if possible having it
streamable so if I'm getting if an you
know he's getting a set of operations I
could thought the Dussehra T works the
opposite if he works by reducing the all
the operations into into the state right
so if I if I could get the the
operations in a streaming way I could I
could I could up front we be doing some
work instead of just doing that on the
same on the same event loop on a Cintiq
so if I could do that in his in a
streaming way that would be that would
be I think extremely useful because I
could get I could be converging
throughout time while replication is
happening of the of your persons or are
happening and I'm thinking about also do
you I do I could be updating with with
with new data while the the replication
is happening so it shouldn't be blocking
should be should be streaming every but
but we
we could just if you have like like
something that you want to propose and
then like a very quick document you want
to propose go and convey to tomorrow for
for the meeting we could also be on
tomorrow's meeting if you could just
just point us to the issue where they're
planning that that would be also be
useful yeah I think um they're and
they're trying to just keep the meeting
it's I think I'm sort of in the meeting
Sam I by accident from when people
thought the original graph
synchronization stuff that I was working
on was the same as this there's a few
different proposals that they've got
everyone sort of looking at all the
context ahead of time and they just want
to do that I think the things that we've
asked for all things people other people
have already asked for which is good
okay I think I'm mostly yeah a fly on
the wall in that meeting because there's
a lot of people who spent like they've
been graphs think proposals going back
for like two years or something hmm
so yeah I want to I think I'm just gonna
mostly let them let them run the show
although it's a matter of prioritization
if there's like a very small subset of
of a feature that we may want that from
that and if we could get if the fly on
the wall could could just push four four
four four four those or at least say
that we we need them now in order to do
the efficient replication that would be
fantastic
just drop the drop the link on on on
leading link there we try and fit in or
schedule that would be cool so a were
way had a lot of time were past eleven
minutes from from the tower I'm going to
end this here thank you everyone for
coming thank you ollie for coming
welcome and doing the notes and thank
you for everyone to do for for their the
contribution and let's see each other
next week same time okay thank you
petrol
bye-bye all right oh my hey guys